REFLECTIONS


Emrecan Kutay: 

This project was beneficial in learning the Android Studio, Firebase and its connections to the Android Studio. It was learned that the action listeners for databases can ruin the sequential property of the Java. There were problems which was solved and caused by the events. Sometimes, the program tries to read the data before it comes from the database and cause error. These are handled by calling the methods in the event listeners which ensures that the method will not be called until the event happens. The number of interactions is very high in the project which makes it harder to handle. Application reads questions, tasks from databases and datastores. There are variables in database just for notification since there are event listeners which are triggered by the value change in the database. Datastores are used when the data is required without a change in it. Many variables are implemented in the database which are needed in the process. Even the features,  showing the lobby leader in every device, show the task giver’s name in the task receiver’s task request is hard to handle since they are pulled from the database and sometimes code tried to use them and NullReference errors were received. However, they were solved (thankfully) as explained above. The main point in this project is to separate the lobbies and direct tasks and prevent the problem of mixture between lobbies and direct tasks. This was solved assigning separate code for each lobby and each direct task in the database and store them in different branches. As result, there are different random questions among lobbies and users in same lobby receive the same random questions. This also implies for the direct task. Every two people assign to a different direct task in the outdoor scoreboard.  In addition, bugs were observed which can cause crash in the application was analyzed. The importance of testing was understood. Found bugs were solved. I think the project is beneficial in terms of understanding the project management, android development and database usage. 


Aral Salehyan:
Thanks to this project, I have learned how to generate an application using android studio. Moreover, the requirements for producing a mobile application was understood. In the future, I can manage projects like this easier by using the experience that was gained from this work. First of all, since I have not used an android studio before, the detail of the connection between the XML and the activity classes was learned. After this process, how to get data from sensors, and adding listeners to them was learned. It may help me use data from other sensors in my future project. During the process of the project, connections between different activities and different classes were hard to handle. We have designed UML for this purpose. However, in the project, different constructors were added to some classes. Some classes were removed and some methods and classes were added. According to this, it was understood that pre-study of the design of a project is really crucial to keep on track. Therefore, If I had started over again, I would spend more time on the design stage of the project.  Finally, I am proud of what we have achieved because we have completed almost everything that we have declared. Moreover, in this project, there were different concepts that must be considered such as database implementation, XML and activity connection, and getting data from sensors. Since I have learned those concepts during the implementation of this project, I felt something more than accomplishment.  

Özmen Erkin Kökten:
Trying to build such a big scoped project from scratch wasn’t easy, however it sure helped me develop in many ways. First of all, I understood that having reliable team-mates is a crucial point for a project to be done. Secondly, I believe that I learned and developed myself in android development thanks to our project. This project helped me understand the hardship of integrating different services into our IDE, i.e Android Studio, and having such troubles made me become a person who can easily use many services in projects now. I understood the connections between the user interface, which is created using XML, and activity classes. Also, it is understood that using a real time database can be very cumbersome in terms of retrieving data and sending data since the listener methods of Firebase function asynchronously. Asynchronous listeners helped me understand and deal with Null Point Exceptions. I also used FirebaseAuth services to create users. I learned that every user has their own uniquely generated UID string and every attribute of a user should be placed under this UID in the database. In addition, use of Model - View - Controller is practiced during the project development, meaning that XML files correspond to View, Activity classes correspond to Controller and regular class files like ‘User’ correspond to Model. In controller, model and view are merged, then controlled as desired. Overall, I think that I became experienced in the android app development field and I can use the skills in the future, which are gained during the project.

Ahmet Erdem Terzi:
Developing such a detailed project is very helpful in improving my general skills. Firstly, I learnt that working in a group is helpful when you can rely on your group members. Even if one person does not do his/her work, other ones will suffer completing the whole project in time. Secondly, in order to complete the project I need to learn the basic working mechanism of the Android Studio. I worked and studied Android Studio and XML coding in order to have insights before starting the project. In addition to that I worked on integration of Google Maps and Google API for getting data from the location services and showing real time Google Maps fragment inside the app. FusedLocationProviderClient is used for the location purposes. This client uses both network and GPS services in order to give the best location result to the user. More generally, I learnt how services in Android Studio works thus I can implement many services in upcoming projects now. Moreover, I learnt that the views, which are written in XML language, are quite important to be attractive for a completed app. I did the general decoration of the app so I have somewhat experience in visual design. The working mechanism of the Android Studio is matching with the MVC design system. While the classes written in Java form the model and the controller parts, XML files form the view part. 
Additionally, I worked with the Database parts of the project too. Using listeners for the database is compulsory but it takes the sequential aspect of Java. Listeners work as interrupts in microcontrollers so they should be handled carefully in order to avoid Null Pointer Exceptions. Briefly, this project helped me to earn experience and new skills in developing android apps.

Barkın Saday:

Working on the project helped me learn using Android Studio and Firebase. Using real time datas in the program was necessary. I also improved myself significantly in terms of designing a class tree and UML diagram to understand the connections between classes. I realised that creating and working on a UML diagram before starting the coding, significantly helps and is necessary. I observed the connection between classes can be complicated if there are too many classes to handle. Also I realised that graphical user interface must be both easy to interact and elegant especially for a mobile application. I found managing datas and creating a well working interface is quite hard. Even though I had major troubles finishing a working class without any errors, working on different classes was very helpful for me to understand how to approach problems and errors. I also learned how to keep track of a large project by separating it to pieces.  
